---
title: Hyper Japan Christmas 2015
subtitle: Live thoughts or why it's imperative to have common sense
date: 30th November 2015
---

So Hyper Japan held it's annual christmas market convention last weekend (27th - 29th November) and much like the summer show earlier this year the organisers managed to bring over a number of great music artists. The difference this time however is the way the live stage was handled.

So first off, for the summer convention. It was held at The O2 and the live stage was in Building Six with a dedicated stage and barriers. While the staff were O2/Building Six staff and weren't happy about lifts and us using the inside of the barriers (where press were) for putting our bags, pretty much everything was allowed. It also helped with the multiple levels so people who were curious or didn't want to be near the masses could stand above and look down.

For the Chirstmas market, the stage was also in a dedicated room however as a makeshift stage it was only slightly raised from the floor. The barrier was pretty minimal and it was nice to be able to put things just in front of it since it was a frame. The main issue I think comes from that because the stage wasn't featuring just music the room was mostly filled with seats and with that came all sorts of arguments. People weren't happy that people could stand in front of their seats.

I kinda feel for them but when you're about to see Ladybaby (or any idol group) you should expect the wotaku to be there, without them it kills a lot of the atmosphere as the wotaku & idols feed off each others energy. Case in point, I think everyone there would agree Ladybaby were the highlight of the convention or IA on saturday night. Why? Because people were standing up enjoying the concerts and being surrounded by likeminded people.

So going into a bit more detail on each of the acts I saw. First up was Mirai no Neido, a fan-made Miku concert. For this everyone was seated (aside from the one guy in the middle, props to you dude!) and taking a cue from last years christmas market you could buy the chemical glowsticks for £1 each (& not in miku colours...). Of course I had my 2 king blades (general smoked & miku magical mirai sparkle) so was doing my thing. Was a little annoying doing it all seated and I wasn't really around anyone who were getting involved but still not bad, even if it was all miku.

Next up was Ladybaby with the cosparade. Did 2~ songs I believe and was fantastic. For this show everyone was standing and I was off to the right of the stage. So there was our group of wotaku and then another batch of ladybaby wotaku in the middle area and we generally followed each other. After this we then went to the meet + greet so that was cool too!

Lastly on the saturday was IA. It used a different projection system than the Miku show so was a lot more clearer. For this concert everyone was standing too however we were told no penlights or flashes which at the time killed the mood for me but I can kinda get their decision. The reason being that the penlights (kingblades) are that much more powerful then the chemical sticks so they can degrade the quality of the projection and I think with us being the same level as the projection doesn't help either. The concert though was superb! Kinda rekindled a love for Vocaloid that I thought I had lost so props to them.

I was back early on Sunday for the second IA show. This was at 10am, we had to queue to get in and then bag a seat. Gone was all the hype for the event. People around me were curious but not into it, I didn't bother to crack one of the chemical sticks I had brought from home and just did hand movements in my chair. People were getting annoyed when the IA cosplayer stood up and wanted to get more involved which sucked for her. IA also employs dancers to try build hype and do some synchonised dances but even they couldn't save the crowd. It was only on the last song that people stood up and started to get involved. I guess people finally clocked on that you not going to see it again and enjoy it.

After this was the 2nd Ladybaby performance I saw (3rd overall) and boy was that special (and bad staff/crowd to start). So to start off with we got our spots sitting infront of the chairs an hour before hand, I would assume people who saw us sitting there must of known what was going to happen. 5mins before the concert us and everyone else in the front row began to stand and get ready for the show, it's at this point that a security member of staff tells us to sit back down so everyone can see, fair enough we thought and sat back down. The main group of ladybaby wotakus who had secured the middle refused to sit down. The ladybaby show starts, more people stand, more shouting from people who chose to sit for people in front to sit down. Ladybaby come out, we did our best from our seated position and it's still a great show from down here, even if painful. After the first song, Ladybeard tells everyone to stand up and we thankfully comply, the shouts from behind us are silenced, everyone is fully involved in the show now and it becomes god-tier to most people topped off with the Rei birthday celebrations.

I didn't catch the last Miku show, I'd imagine it would of been like the one the previous day. I would off liked to have known whether they stopped penlights/standing for that.

So some thoughts of improvements that would improve the live stage area for everybody. Firstly move some events to another area. I know the chirstmas market doesn't get as many events so it makes financial sense to combine it and use as little of the area as possible but moving some events to a different stage that don't make sense as a live stage frees up some of the floor space from the chairs. Leaving space for the wotaku/hardcore fans and that moves onto my second point, move the casuals. Building Six was good for this as they could either move out of the way or upstairs to catch it and they still get a not bad view. More space for the hardcore means better energy to the artists which means better shows it helps everyone. If you get annoyed at this, don't be there and use common sense.

I know that if I was going to a metal concert, I would go seated and out the way of hardcores since that's not my scene and I wouldn't be able to keep up and enjoy the show. Go where is best for you and if you do choose the hardcore area be ready for a fun show. I'd recommend doing some research on the group or know general wotaku calls/movements so you can join in.

My third point which I'm not sure how feasable it is, would be to have your own staff to oversee the barrier area and in/around the venue. A Japanese music event is pretty different from a usual concert and Idol events are even more different. It may look like chaos to people who aren't used to the music but there is method there. By having staff that understand, it allows the wotaku to go all out and probably keep people safer as they would know when there is an issue. It would also help inform people who are annoyed as staff will be able to explain what is happening.

So that's kinda my thoughts on it. I was debating earlier about whether I'd be able to do something about it if I volunteer for the upcoming summer convention and it's something I want to do to give something back so we'll see closer to the time.

Also lol no blog posts for 12months and bam, this mammouth of a post. Hopefully have another one soon on what dempa @ hyper japan summer did for the uk wotaku scene which I've been thinking about since yesterday with the ladybaby fans (one mentioned nemu's wotaku guides). Anyway soon maybe!
