---
title: Another Delayed Blogpost
date: 3rd March 2016
---

There isn’t really any cause for this post aside from just wanting to have something new up. I guess since the last post I’ve recently moved this blog from Tumblr to it’s own site. No real reason for the move though it is nice to be in control of everything. I’ve recently been working on a number of projects both for myself and for work which has been quite fun. Work wise I’ve been working on making our new intranet mobile responsive and converting our LESS into SCSS. Personal wise I’ve launched this blog, launched Oshimen & updated the personal site to include the blog section.

Outside of coding life, I’ve got a new computer so I’m easing back into PC gaming with friends again. That’s been pretty fun and there is no shortage of things to play since I’ve been out the loop as it were stuck on mac for the past few years. I’m also moving rooms in the house, taking over my sisters room since she has moved to London for University. It’s a lot bigger than my current room so I’ll be able to move the electronic drum kit into there and have a split studio/bedroom. Hopefully that will motivate me to start recording things.

Aside from that I’ve booked my trip to Japan for August. I arrive on the 4th to catch Tokyo Idol Festival that weekend and then I can get to Comiket the weekend after that. I’m staying at this nice apartment on AirBnB, it’s my first time using the service but so far very happy with it. Will be taking the GoPro & Macbook with me so expect photos/videos! Saying that I still need to edit the footage from the Orlando holiday with Family from last year. Eventually I’ll get round to doing that, just a considerable amount of editing for that as we’re going for multi-angle setups rather than a chronological timeline but should give a (hopeful) better end result.

I think that’s about it really. Will try to maybe do a weekly thing or something to just talk about a specific subject for a few paragraphs whether that be how my week was, coding thoughts, a project, music, games or something else entirely. Let’s see how long this lasts!