---
title: How I Pick Oshis
date: 22nd August 2016
---
I recently returned back from Japan and had an amazing time (blogpost soon!) but this post is going to talk about how I pick my oshis, ie. How I pick the idols I want to support. I felt the need to write this following on from [https://twitter.com/tomopagu/status/767012132475002882](https://twitter.com/tomopagu/status/767012132475002882). The gist being I’m switching my oshis for You’ll Melt More & Moso Calibration from Ano & Iori to Younapi & Mahiru as I found them much more involved many aspects of being an idol whether that’s performing, tweeting/blogging and meeting myself. I feel like it’s wrong to change oshis, so was hesitant to do so as you’re basically saying I don’t like this idol anymore. But I hope I can give good reasons as to why I’m supporting them now. Anyhow this post is just going to go over all my oshis with reasons why I support them.

We’ll start with Kanako from Momoiro Clover Z. I guess she was my first oshi, back when I first saw them at Kishidan Banpaku I mentioned to a friend that I saw lots of their fans dressed in their members colours. It was my first exposure to idol culture and saw lots of yellow, pinks & green. I don’t think I decided on Kanako before the concert. But after getting to the know the groups in the following days, I decided on Kanako. Initially it was because my friend was a Shiorin oshi so didn’t want to pick her and also wanted to choose someone fairly close to my age. From there I believe that left Kanako & Reni, then I made my choice based on looks and to me Kanako looked prettier. That’s how I made my choice, via looks. I have since looked more into Kanako and now like her more for her funny personality & leadership rather than looks.

Next we move to my main oshi and 2nd. Mirin from Dempagumi.inc. I think for Mirin I stumbled on their live at budokan and watching that made me a fan of Mirin. She enjoyed performing so much and if I’m remembering correctly she got very emotional which is an absolute thing for me since if someone starts crying I probably will do too. She also had twin tails which I thought were really cute and having the same colour as Kanako was a bonus. Another thing with Mirin was her history from school, being at DearStage for a while, I really wanted her to succeed. Plus being on Twitter was a huge bonus compared to Kanako. I was beginning to think maybe I would just stick to idols associated with red. So that’s why I chose to support Mirin.

My 2nd Main Oshi is Gumi from Banmon. She is an exception to most of the things at the time I stayed away from. I didn’t like idols with blonde hair (like Moga for example) as I thought they had lots of fans since they stand out more and also her colour is aqua. With Gumi though I believe it was the Megane Moe video and her parts (being asleep, getting hamburgers) were super super cute so I started to support her from that. I also thought her voice was really unique. Following on from that fairly active on twitter & her solo song from Namida is half sung in english (unfortunately since meeting her she doesn’t know much english) so those were also major pluses. This has gone to major strengths since the latest Japan trip since I did 4 chekis & 3 handshakes with her so got sometime to try talk and get photos. It was really nice!

Continuing on the Dearstage Theme and my first changed Oshi. Originally I was a fan of Iori from Moso Calibration. The main reason for this was I really liked her hair in the おもてなでしこ伝承中 MV ([https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=97_X-oLiP6E](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=97_X-oLiP6E)) and that’s kinda it. I decided to switch over to Mahiru as meeting them at Tokyo Idol Festival for a quick handshake she definitely came across as the nicest of the group and on stage I really was drawn to her rather than Iori even though there were Iori birthday celebrations that weekend. It’s also a bonus that Mahiru speaks ok english, so communicating is nice!

For You’ll Melt More, I was an Ano oshi because of [https://youtu.be/iCyKpQFwnUM](https://youtu.be/iCyKpQFwnUM). I liked that she didn’t really care about things and would crowd surf, shout and scream, however after TIF and more specifically Mogra. I’ve decided to be a Younapi Oshi. While originally a positive, I’ve come to view Ano’s lack of enthusiasm as a negative compared to someone like younapi who tries to do as much as possible. I also felt a little bad for her at the Mogra show as Shiorin (from Banmon) was DJ-ing beforehand and a lot of people left when she did so it was maybe half full for Younapi. I also got a CD & cheki with her after her set.

Next up we’ll talk about Perorin-sensei. For Perorin, I’m mostly a fan because of her artwork first and foremost. (Thinking about it, I don’t think I’ve actually listened to her group or her) She is very active on social media with her drawings and blog posts.

Back to Stardust Idols, for Ebichu I’m a Mirei oshi. She has a really good singing voice and cute looks (the hair in the anarchy video). I’m slightly worried she might have a bit of a stuck-up personality though, but since I’ve not seen Ebichu and am not massively involved in their tv show I can’t really say otherwise. For Rocka Japonica, I’ve gone for Amipon. She is really really cute and it’s mostly because her solo song for the 2nd Single is sung with a lot of english and the CM is really cute: [https://youtu.be/t6kIV7oQsmw](https://youtu.be/t6kIV7oQsmw)

Lastly that brings us to Kaede from PassCode. For her it was definitely looks at first. She is the cute one of the group for me so that’s why I settled on her. I slightly messed up when getting a wristband for the group as I ended up getting a Yuna wristband (Blue instead of Yellow).

And that brings me onto my point. From now on especially I’m going to give sometime before I pick an oshi. I don’t feel it’s right to pick purely on aesthetics purely because I don’t end up with a connection to the idol. For my main pair of Mirin & Gumi I may have settled fairly quickly on them but after going into their personalities I’m a lot more attached to them. I hope I can be like that to the other idols I support and give all new idols a fair chance.

This has been a pretty long post and it’s most likely not going to make sense to anyone but myself, but thought it would be good to put down in writing.
